Logical Operators. In addition to the
operators already mentioned we will use
logical operators so that in combination
with the control structures we can
create decisions that provide a
solution to our needs. In the table you
can see the logical operators with which
we will be working. Unless we want to
work with bits (ones and zeros) we will
normally use the AND (&&) and OR (||) operators
in short circuit mode. In the following
table we will explain what this means
Truth table of logical operators. In the
figure we can see the application of the
logical operators and the truth table
that applies to each operator. This table
must be known by heart, since it is what
we'll be applying when we use the
logical operators. The 1 means true and
the 0 means false, however is not
difficult to memorize, the only thing we
have to apply is the following. In the
case of the operator AND (&&) the result
will be true only if both values are
true, otherwise the final result will be
false. In the case of the OR (||) operator the
result will be true if any of the
operands X or Y is true. Above we
mentioned the AND and short-circuit OR
operators, what it means is that if it's
detected that a result no longer makes
sense to evaluate it, for example if the
operator AND the evaluation of the
operand on the left side is false then
the whole expression will be false and
the remaining operand will no longer be
evaluated. And in the case of the OR
operator if the operand on the left side
is true therefore the other operand on
the right side is no longer evaluated
because the whole result will be true
and in the case of the negation operator
the only thing it does is to invert the
original value of the operand so it will
be very simple to apply this truth table
for each of the operators if we apply
the rules described. In the next
exercises we will practice this kind of
operators in
combination with the control structures
Relational Operators. When using the
decision structures we will find the need
to compare values, that's why we will use
different types of operators for this
relational operators are listed on the
figure and we will put them into
practice in combination with the
decision structures in the following
exercises